Hello. Welcome back to the
Computer Forensics Path.
In this course, Course 12,
we're going to talk about
hash values and file hashing.
In this course, we're going to
cover: understanding
the concept of hashing,
the functions and
uses of hashing,
creating hash sets, what
rainbow tables are and how
we use them to break passwords,
and we're going to
cover hashing files,
folders and entire drives.
I know we have hash and drives
in our imaging section,
but we're going to
dive deeper into what
hash values are and
other uses for them.
In Module 1, we're
going to talk about
the function and the
uses of hashing.
What is hashing?
Well, hashing is a way
to represent data with
a unique numerical value using
a mathematical algorithm.
It's like fingerprinting
our data,
and that fingerprint is for
a specific dataset
at a specific time.
Hash value of a dataset will
change if it is modified,
or sometimes even if
it is just opened up
in Windows without
write protection.
You need to understand that
hashing is a one-way function.
We can get a hash
value using a dataset,
but we cannot take
that hash value and
then recreate the
data from the hash.
The concept of hashing.
Regardless of what the
size of the data is,
whether it's a megabyte
or a gigabyte,
it doesn't matter, how
large or small the file
or the drives that
you're hashing.
The hash algorithm
size will not change.
If you're doing an MD5 hash,
that's going to be a
32-character value,
no matter what size
the data is that
we're getting that
hash value from.
The same is true for
SHA1 and SHA256.
SHA1 is a 40-character value,
and that will never
change no matter what
the size of the data is.
SHA256 is a 64-character
long hash value,
and again, that will not
change no matter how
big or small the dataset
is that we are hashing.
What do we use hashes for?
Well, some of the common uses of
hashes is to check
the integrity of
data as it is being sent from
one computer to another,
like data transmission.
It is used for sector checking.
As we saw with reuse
or a checksum 64 to
validate that our drives
was properly wiped.
Also find integrity to
show that no changes
were made to a file.
A hash value can show that
a file has not been changed
because if changes were made,
the hash value would change.
We used it when we
validated our hard
drives and we validated
our copies of our hard
drives in the last course.
Well, let's talk about the
MD5 collision for a second.
It was created in the laboratory.
The odds that two
different files will have
the same MD5 hash value is two
raised to the 128th power,
which is 3.4 undecillion.
That is rare than
two people having
the same DNA or fingerprints.
In our next module,
we're going to talk about
creating hash sets,
why we create hash sets,
and what we can
use hash sets for.